New How-To chapter (#100)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/how-to/documenting.rst

Documenting
===========
PyAnsys documentation must not only be written but also maintained. If you are
new to writing developer documentation, see the `Google Developer Documentation
Style Guide <https://developers.google.com/style>`_. It provides
editorial guidelines for writing clear and consistent developer documentation,
allowing this guide to supply guidance specific to PyAnsys library
documentation.

When writing developer documentation, the relationship between code and
documentation is key. To keep documentation up to date with radial evolving
code:

- Minimize the content footprint
- Write `timeless documentation <https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation>`_
- Support contributions from both inside and outside of the development team
- Perform periodic reviews

Documentation Sources
---------------------
.. raw:: html
    
    <div align="center">
      <img src="https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/raw/5.x/doc/_static/sphinx.png">
    </div>
    <br>

The generation of PyAnsys documentation uses `Sphinx
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`__ and an Ansys-branded theme

> (`pyansys-sphinx-theme <https://github.com/pyansys/pyansys-sphinx-theme>`_) to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`pyansys-sphinx-theme <https://github.com/pyansys/ansys-sphinx-theme>`_) to
```

Documenting
===========
PyAnsys documentation must not only be written but also maintained. If you are
new to writing developer documentation, see the `Google Developer Documentation
Style Guide <https://developers.google.com/style>`_. It provides
editorial guidelines for writing clear and consistent developer documentation,

> allowing this guide to supply guidance specific to PyAnsys library

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
allowing this guide to supply guidance only specific to PyAnsys library
```

documentation.

When writing developer documentation, the relationship between code and

> documentation is key. To keep documentation up to date with radial evolving

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
documentation is key. To keep documentation up to date with evolving
```

code:

> - Minimize the content footprint
> - Write `timeless documentation <https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation>`_
> - Support contributions from both inside and outside of the development team
> - Perform periodic reviews

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Minimize the content footprint.
- Write `timeless documentation <https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation>`_.
- Support contributions from both inside and outside of the development team.
- Perform periodic reviews.
```

Reviewer 2: Periods ending each bullet because they are imperative sentences (complete sentences with an understood subject of "you".

Documentation Sources
---------------------
.. raw:: html
    
    <div align="center">
      <img src="https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/raw/5.x/doc/_static/sphinx.png">
    </div>
    <br>

The generation of PyAnsys documentation uses `Sphinx
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`__ and an Ansys-branded theme
(`ansys-sphinx-theme <https://github.com/ansys/Sansys-sphinx-theme>`_) to
assemble content in:

- Docstrings
- reStructuredText (RST) files
- Python (PY) example files

Docstrings
~~~~~~~~~~
Docstrings must be formatted so that Sphinx can parse them. You can use either
of these Sphinx extensions:
 
- `numpydoc <https://pypi.org/project/numpydoc/>`_
- `napoleon <https://pypi.org/project/sphinxcontrib-napoleon/>`_

The ``numpydoc`` extension is generally preferred because it supports an API
documentation structure with one page per method, providing Python community
members with documentation like that generated by `pandas <https://pandas.pydata.org/>`_
and `NumPy <https://numpy.org/>`_. If, however, your API is very linear, you

> might prefer the  ``napoleon`` extension because it supports a documentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
might prefer the ``napoleon`` extension because it supports a documentation
```

structure where everything needed to solve a certain problem can be shown on one page.

The ``numpydoc`` extension provides its own `style guide
<https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html>`_ and a `user guide
<https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ that explains how to use the
extension with Sphinx. The ``napoleon`` extension, which parses both numpy and
Google style docstrings, refers you to the `Google Python Style Guide
<https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html>`_.

> Regardless of the extension that you choose for generating documentation, we
> recommend the use of numpy-style docstrings so that there is consistency
> within PyAnsys libraries. For more information, see :ref:`Documentation Style`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regardless of the extension that you choose for generating documentation, using
numpy-style docstrings ensures that there is consistency within PyAnsys libraries.
For more information, see :ref:`Documentation Style`.
```

> RST Files

Reviewer 2: We need to check if this is the first reference to RST files--it needs to defined as ReStrucutred Text (RST) files on first reference before RST can be used subsequently.

> RST Files

Author: ```suggestion
ReStructured Text Files
```

~~~~~~~~~
To provide general usage information in your documentation, use your favorite

> editor to create RST files that you then place in :ref:`The \`\`doc/\`\`

Author: ```suggestion
editor to create ReStructured Text (RST) files that you then place in :ref:`The \`\`doc/\`\`
```

Directory` directory. The ``index.rst`` file in the ``doc/source`` directory
defines the first level of your documentation hierarchy.  The ``toctree``
directive (which stands for "table of contents tree") indicates the maximum
number of heading levels that the documentation is to display. Below this
directive are the directory names for your documentation sections.  Each
documentation chapter has its own ``index.rst`` file, as shown by figure
:numref:`proposed_doc_layout`.

.. include:: diag/doc_layout.rst

> Documentation structure shown in :numref:`proposed_doc_layout` can be modelled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The documentation structure shown in :numref:`proposed_doc_layout` can be modelled
```

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: index.rst

        .. code-block:: rst

            Welcome to the Library Documentation
            ####################################

            This is the content of the root `index.rst` file.

            .. toctree::

                chapter_A/index
                chapter_B/index

    .. tab:: chapter_A/index.rst

        .. code-block:: rst

            Chapter A
            #########

            This is the content of the `chapter_A/index.rst` file.

            .. toctree::

                section_1
                section_2
                ...

    .. tab:: chapter_B/index.rst

        .. code-block:: rst

            Chapter B
            #########

            This is the content of the `chapter_B/index.rst` file.

            .. toctree::

                another_section
                ...

While you do not include the ``.rst`` extension when defining the section
structure, the index file referenced for each chapter must be named
``index.rst``.

After you build documentation locally as described in :ref:`Building
Documentation`, the first-level heading in the ``index.rst`` file for each

> documentation chapter is shown as clickable link in the header of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
documentation chapter is shown as a clickable link in the header of the
```

documentation's generated HTML output. For more information on defining a
documentation structure, see the `Sphinx Getting Started
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/quickstart.html>`_ guide.

Indicating RST Titles
+++++++++++++++++++++
Within RST files, heading titles are followed by a line having a string of
characters that is the same length as the heading title. If the length of the
characters under the heading title do not match the length of the heading
title, Sphinx generates a warning.

For consistency within PyAnsys libraries, the use of these special characters

> is recommended for headings but are not enforced:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is recommended for headings but is not enforced:
```

- For chapter-level headings, use ``###``.
- For section-level headings, use ``===``.
- For subsection-level headings, use ``---``.
- For subsubsection-level headings, use ``~~~``. 
- For paragraph-level headings, use ``+++``. 

For comprehensive syntax information, see the `reStrucutredText Markup Specification
<https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html>`_.

Because you need to be familiar with the content in the `PyAnsys Developer's
Guide <dev.docs.pyansys.com/>`_, page through its HTML pages and then explore
the RST files in its repository. This will help you to understand the syntax and

> see how RST files have been nested to create this guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
see how RST files have been nested to create this particular guide.
```

Recommended Chapters
++++++++++++++++++++

> Although each project is different, documentation has the same goal: providing
> instructions and guidelines for the users. Thus, some common chapters can be
> found across software projects. Try to include these chapters in your project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although each project is different, documentation has the same goal: providing
instructions and guidelines for users. Thus, some common chapters can be
found across software projects. Try to include these chapters in your project:
```

> - ``Getting Started`` contains guidelines on how to install and setup the software.
> - ``User Guide`` quickly demonstrates some of the basic features of the library.
> - ``API Reference`` documents the different objects of the library.
> - ``Examples`` fully fledged tutorials and case of use of the product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``Getting Started`` contains guidelines on how to install and set up the library.
- ``User Guide`` demonstrates some of the basic features of the library.
- ``API Reference`` documents the different objects of the library.
- ``Examples`` provides fully fledged tutorials and use cases for the library.
```

Examples
~~~~~~~~
Examples come in two formats:

> - Basic code snippets demonstrating some functionality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Basic code snippets demonstrating functionality
```

> - Full-fledged standalone examples that are meant to be run as individual downloadable scripts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Full-fledged standalone examples that are meant to be run as downloadable scripts
```

This directory also contains a ``Makefile`` and a ``make.bat`` files for
automating the building process. Different builders resulting in different

> rendered documentation types are available such as ``HTML``, ``LaTeX`` or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automating the building process. Different builders generate different
rendered documentation types, including ``HTML``, ``LaTeX``, and
```

``PDF``. 

Building HTML documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> For building the ``HTML`` documentation, the following command need to be
> executed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For building ``HTML`` documentation, the following command must be
executed:
```

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Makefile

        .. code-block:: bash

            make html

    .. group-tab:: make.bat

        .. code-block:: bash

            make.bat html

> The resultant ``HTML`` files can be found inside the ``_build/html`` directory,
> located in :ref:`The \`\`doc/\`\` Directory`. To display this documentation, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The resulting ``HTML`` files can be found inside the ``_build/html`` directory,
located in :ref:`The \`\`doc/\`\` Directory`. To display this documentation, run:
```

.. code-block:: text

    <browser> doc/_build/html/index.html

Building PDF Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> For building the ``PDF`` documentation, the following rules need to be added to
> ``Makefile`` and ``make.bat`` files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To  build ``PDF`` documentation, the following rules must be added to
``Makefile`` and ``make.bat`` files:
```

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Makefile

        .. code-block:: text
            
            pdf:
	            @$(SPHINXBUILD) -M latex "$(SOURCEDIR)" "$(BUILDDIR)" $(SPHINXOPTS) $(O)
	            cd build/latex && latexmk -r latexmkrc -pdf *.tex -interaction=nonstopmode || true
	            (test -f build/latex/*.pdf && echo pdf exists) || exit 1

    .. group-tab:: make.bat

        .. code-block:: text

           :pdf
                   %SPHINXBUILD% -M latex %SOURCEDIR% %BUILDDIR% %SPHINXOPTS% %O%
	           cd "%BUILDDIR%\latex"
	           pdflatex *.tex --interaction=nonstopmode

Previous rules can be called by running:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Makefile

        .. code-block:: bash

            make pdf

    .. group-tab:: make.bat

        .. code-block:: bash

            make.bat pdf

> The resultant document together with its LaTeX files can be found in the
> ``_build/latex`` folder, located in :ref:`The \`\`doc/\`\` Directory`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The resulting PDF and intermediate LaTeX files can be found in the
``_build/latex`` folder, located in :ref:`The \`\`doc/\`\` Directory`.
```

> .. admonition:: Always check the content of your PDF

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. admonition:: Always check the content of your PDF.
```

Reviewer 2: Should this be set up as a note or caution? What call out the need for checking the content? Perhaps extend the sentence to something like: "Always check the content of your PDF to ensure that it is complete and formatted correctly."

Reviewer 2: Ahh--the next edit has the information I was looking for. How about moving that information into the admonition, which probably should be a note.

>    Since warnings and errors during LaTeX building and rendering process are
>    ignored, it may be possible that the resultant PDF file has text formatting
>    errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Because warnings and errors that occur during the LaTeX building and rendering
   processes are ignored, it is possible that the PDF file has text formatting errors.
```

> Deploying Documentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploying documentation
```

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming we are moving to sentence case?

Author: Let us keep using sentence case for this PR. Once merged, we can apply changes to all headings.
